# ^B9




ZPL Commands


The `^B9` command produces a variation of the UPC symbology used for the number system 0. It is a
shortened version of the UPC-A barcode, where zeros are suppressed, resulting in codes that require less
printing space.


**UPC-E Barcode**


The 6 dot/mm, 12 dot/mm and 24 dot/mm printheads produce the UPC and EAN symbologies at 100
percent of their size. However, an 8 dot/mm printhead produces the UPC and EAN symbologies at a
magnification factor of 77 percent.

Each character in a UPC-E barcode is composed of four elements: two bars and two spaces. The `^BY`
command must be used to specify the width of the narrow bar.

- `^B9` supports a fixed ratio.

- Field data ( `^FD)` is limited to exactly 10 characters, requiring a five-digit manufacturer’s code and a fivedigit product code.


- When using the zero-suppressed versions of UPC, you must enter the full 10-character sequence. ZPL II
calculates and prints the shortened version.


**IMPORTANT:** [If additional information about this barcode is required, refer to aimglobal.org.](http://www.aimglobal.org)


**Format:** `^B9,h,f,g,e`








|Parameters|Details|
|---|---|
|`o =` orientation|**Values:**<br>`N =` normal<br>`R =` rotated 90 degrees (clockwise)<br>`I =` inverted 180 degrees<br>`B =` read from the bottom up, 270 degrees<br>**Default:** current`^FW` value|
|`h =` barcode height (in<br>dots)|**Values:** `1` to`32000`<br>**Default:** value set by`^BY`|
|`f =` print interpretation<br>line|**Values:**<br>`N =` no<br>`Y =` yes<br>**Default:** `Y`|
|`g =` print interpretation<br>line above code|**Values:**<br>`N =` no<br>`Y =` yes<br>**Default:** `N`|
|`e =` print check digit|**Values:**<br>`N =` no<br>`Y =` yes<br>**Default:** `Y`|



85


ZPL Commands


**Example**


This is an example of a UPC-E barcode:


**Rules for Proper Product Code Numbers**


- If the last three digits in the manufacturer’s number are 000, 100, or 200, valid product code numbers
are 00000 to 00999.


- If the last three digits in the manufacturer’s number are 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, or 900, valid
product code numbers are 00000 to 00099.


- If the last two digits in the manufacturer’s number are 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90, valid product
code numbers are 00000 to 00009.


- If the manufacturer’s number does not end in zero (0), valid product code numbers are 00005 to
00009.


86